{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Unit-1\par
Assigment-1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ulnone\fs28 Q1. What is a cloud technology? Discuss some of its key features.\par
Ans. \b0 Cloud computing is on-demand access, via the internet, to computing resources\f1\emdash applications, servers (physical servers and virtual servers), data storage, development tools, networking capabilities, and more\emdash hosted at a remote data center managed by a cloud services provider (or CSP). The CSP makes these resources available for a monthly subscription fee or bills them according to usage.\f0\lang1033  Some of its key features are as follows:-\par
1. Resource pooling and elasticity\par
In cloud computing, resources are pooled to serve a large number of customers. Cloud computing uses multi-tenancy where different resources are dynamically allocated and de-allocated according to demand. From the user\rquote s end, it is not possible to know where the resource actually resides.\par
2. Self-service and On-demand service\par
Cloud computing is based on self-service and on-demand service models. It should allow the user to interact with the cloud to perform tasks like building, deploying, managing, and scheduling. The user should be able to access computing capabilities as and when they are needed and without any interaction from the cloud-service provider.\par
3. Pricing\par
Cloud computing does not have any upfront cost. It is completely based on usage. The user is billed based on the amount of resources they use. This helps the user to track their usage and ultimately help to reduce cost. Cloud computing must provide means to capture, monitor, and control usage information for accurate billing.\par
4. Quality of Service\par
Cloud computing must assure the best service level for users. Services outlined in the service-level agreements must include guarantees on round-the-clock availability, adequate resources, performance, and bandwidth. Any compromise on these guarantees could prove fatal for customers.\par
5. Security\par
Data security is one of the best features of cloud computing. Cloud services make a copy of the stored data to prevent any kind of data loss. If one server loses data by any chance, the copied version is restored from the other server. This feature comes in handy when multiple users are working on a particular file in real-time, and one file suddenly gets corrupted.\par
\b\par
Q2. Discuss in brief the various cloud delivery services.\par
Ans. \b0 Cloud delivery services is spread world wide in a large number. Some of them are as follows:-\par
1. Cloud Storage\par
Ex: Dropbox, Gmail, Facebook. The number of cloud storage providers online seems to grow every day. Each competing over the amount of storage they can provide to clients.Right now, Dropbox is the clear leader in streamlined cloud storage allowing users to access files on any device through its application or website with up to 1 terabyte of free storage.\par
2. Marketing Cloud Platforms\par
Ex: Maropost for Marketing, Hubspot, Adobe Marketing Cloud. A marketing cloud is an end-to-end digital marketing platform for clients to manage contacts and target leads. Maropost Marketing Cloud combines easy-to-use marketing automation and hyper-targeting of leads. At the same time, ensuring emails actually arrive in the inbox, thanks to its advanced email deliverability capabilities.\par
3. Cloud Computing in Education\par
Ex: SlideRocket, Ratatype, Amazon Web Services. Education is increasingly adopting advanced technology because students already are. So, in an effort to modernize classrooms, educators have introduced e-learning software like SlideRocket. For school administration, Amazon\rquote s AWS Cloud for K12 and Primary Education features a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) solution. Through the cloud, allows instructors and students to access teaching and learning software on multiple devices.\par
4. Cloud Computing in Healthcare\par
Ex: ClearDATA, Dell\rquote s Secure Healthcare Cloud, IBM Cloud. Cloud computing lets nurses, physicians, and administrators share information quickly from anywhere. It also saves on costs by allowing large data files to be shared instantly for maximum convenience. This is a major boost for efficiency.\par
5. Cloud Computing for Government\par
Uses: IT consolidation, shared services, citizen services. The U.S. government and military were early adopters of cloud computing. The U.S. Federal Cloud Computing Strategy, introduced under the Obama administration, was instituted to accelerate cloud adoption in all departments.\par
Cloud computing is the answer for any business struggling to stay organized, increase ROI, or grow their email lists. Maropost has the digital marketing solutions you need to transform your business.\par
\b\par
Q3. Describe in brief the architecture of cloud computing.\par
Ans. \b0 As we know, cloud computing technology is used by both small and large organizations to store the information in cloud and access it from anywhere at anytime using the internet connection.\par
Cloud computing architecture is a combination of service-oriented architecture and event-driven architecture.\par
Cloud computing architecture is divided into the following two parts -\par
1. Front End- The front end is used by the client. It contains client-side interfaces and applications that are required to access the cloud computing platforms. The front end includes web servers (including Chrome, Firefox, internet explorer, etc.), thin & fat clients, tablets, and mobile devices.\par
2. Back End- The back end is used by the service provider. It manages all the resources that are required to provide cloud computing services. It includes a huge amount of data storage, security mechanism, virtual machines, deploying models, servers, traffic control mechanisms, etc.\par
Components of Cloud Computing Architecture:-\par
1. Client Infrastructure- Client Infrastructure is a Front end component. It provides GUI (Graphical User Interface)  to interact with the cloud.\par
2. Application- The application may be any software or platform that a client wants to access.\par
3. Service- A Cloud Services manages that which type of service you access according to the client\rquote s requirement. Cloud computer offers basically three types of services which are Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS),  Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).\par
4. Runtime Cloud- Runtime Cloud provides the execution and runtime environment to the virtual machines.\par
5. Storage- Storage is one of the most important components of cloud computing. It provides a huge amount of storage capacity in the cloud to store and manage data.\par
6. Infrastructure- It provides services on the host level, application level, and network level. Cloud infrastructure includes hardware and software components such as servers, storage, network devices, virtualization software, and other storage resources that are needed to support the cloud computing model.\par
7. Management- Management is used to manage components such as application, service, runtime cloud, storage, infrastructure, and other security issues in the backend and establish coordination between them.\par
8. Security-Security is an in-built back end component of cloud computing. It implements a security mechanism in the back end.\par
9. Internet- The Internet is medium through which front end and back end can interact and communicate with each other.\par
\b\par
Q4. How many types of cloud models are there? Discuss in brief.\par
Ans. \b0 There are 4 major types of cloud models:-\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1. Public clouds- Public clouds are cloud environments typically created from IT infrastructure not owned by the end user. Some of the largest public cloud providers include Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Traditional public clouds always ran off-premises, but today's public cloud providers have started offering cloud services on clients\rquote  on-premise data centers. This has made location and ownership distinctions obsolete.\par
2. Private clouds- Private clouds are loosely defined as cloud environments solely dedicated to a single end user or group, where the environment usually runs behind that user or group's firewall. All clouds become private clouds when the underlying IT infrastructure is dedicated to a single customer with completely isolated access. But private clouds no longer have to be sourced from on-prem IT infrastructure. Organizations are now building private clouds on rented, vendor-owned data centers located off-premises, which makes any location and ownership rules obsolete.\par
3.Hybrid clouds- A hybrid cloud is a seemingly single IT environment created from multiple environments connected through local area networks (LANs), wide area networks (WANs), virtual private networks (VPNs), and/or APIs. The characteristics of hybrid clouds are complex and the requirements can differ, depending on whom you ask. For example, a hybrid cloud may need to include: At least 1 private cloud and at least 1 public cloud, 2 or more private clouds, 2 or more public clouds, A bare-metal or virtual environment connected to at least 1 public cloud or private cloud.\par
4. Multiclouds- Multiclouds are a cloud approach made up of more than 1 cloud service, from more than 1 cloud vendor\f1\emdash public or private. All hybrid clouds are multiclouds, but not all multiclouds are hybrid clouds. Multiclouds become hybrid clouds when multiple clouds are connected by some form of integration or orchestration.\f0  \f1 A multicloud environment might exist on purpose (to better control sensitive data or as redundant storage space for improved disaster recovery) or by accident (usually the result of shadow IT). Either way, having multiple clouds is becoming more common across enterprises that seek to improve security and performance through an expanded portfolio of environments.\par
\b\f0\par
Q5. Discuss the possible benefits of cloud computing.\par
Ans. \b0 Following are some of the possible benefits of cloud computing:-\par
1. Reduced IT costs- Moving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of managing and maintaining your IT systems. Rather than purchasing expensive systems and equipment for your business, you can reduce your costs by using the resources of your cloud computing service provider. \par
2. Scalability- Your business can scale up or scale down your operation and storage needs quickly to suit your situation, allowing flexibility as your needs change. Rather than purchasing and installing expensive upgrades yourself, your cloud computer service provider can handle this for you. Using the cloud frees up your time so you can get on with running your business.\par
3. Business continuity-Protecting your data and systems is an important part of business continuity planning. Whether you experience a natural disaster, power failure or other crisis, having your data stored in the cloud ensures it is backed up and protected in a secure and safe location. Being able to access your data again quickly allows you to conduct business as usual, minimising any downtime and loss of productivity.\par
4. Collaboration Efficiency- Collaboration in a cloud environment gives your business the ability to communicate and share more easily outside of the traditional methods. If you are working on a project across different locations, you could use cloud computing to give employees, contractors and third parties access to the same files.\par
5. Flexibilty- Cloud computing allows employees to be more flexible in their work practices. For example, you have the ability to access data from home, on holiday, or via the commute to and from work (providing you have an internet connection). If you need access to your data while you are off-site, you can connect to your virtual office, quickly and easily.\par
6. Automatic Updates- Access to automatic updates for your IT requirements may be included in your service fee. Depending on your cloud computing service provider, your system will regularly be updated with the latest technology. This could include up-to-date versions of software, as well as upgrades to servers and computer processing power.\par
\b\par
Q6. What are the drivers of cloud computing? Discuss.\par
Ans. \b0 The key drivers behind the mass-migration to cloud computing are as follows:-\par
1. Cost Saving- When you move to cloud-based computing, you are utilizing the infrastructure of the cloud provider rather than your own infrastructure. This means that the cost of maintenance, updating equipment, and managing software on the devices becomes the responsibility of the service provider.\par
\par
2. Convenience- Businesses are increasingly becoming more mobile as technology enables them to do so. Of course, employees still have to be able to access and share files when they are working outside of the office. With cloud-based storage, users can easily access the files they need wherever they are located. This enables your employees to focus on the tasks that can actually drive growth in your business like meeting face-to-face with clients or prospecting for new business.\par
3. Security- It\rquote s hard not to turn on the daily news and see a story about the latest major data breach. While cloud-based computing isn\rquote t 100 percent secure, your business does get the benefit of regular security updates. Most importantly, the cost and management of the new security doesn\rquote t fall in your lap. Many cloud providers are also implementing artificial intelligence to help identify and track down the latest threats to provide even greater security.\par
4. Recovery- A fire or flood in your business could be devastating if you store data on-premise. Not only do you need to recover data, you may need to replace infrastructure at a very high cost. This can lead to prolonged downtime, increased expenses, and lost revenue. With cloud-based computing and cloud-based storage, a disaster in your business doesn\rquote t mean you have to go completely dark. \par
5. Efficiency- With advanced capture and cloud storage, documents can instantly be analyzed and stored in a way that makes it easy for your business to access and review documents. This can be incredibly handy if you are in the process of going through an audit.\par
\b Q7. What are Hybrid Clouds? Discuss its benefits and limitations.\par
Ans.\b0  A hybrid cloud is one in which applications are running in a combination of different environments. Hybrid cloud computing approaches are widespread because almost no one today relies entirely on the public cloud. Many of you have invested millions of dollars and thousands of hours into on-premises infrastructure over the past few decades. Benefits of Hybrid cloud are:-\par
1. Effective application governance- A hybrid approach allows you to decide where your application sits and where hybrid computing happens. This can help improve privacy and ensure compliance for your regulated applications.\par
2. Improved performance and reduced latency- Sometimes, distributed apps at remote locations benefit from a hybrid cloud solution. For applications with low latency requirements, hybrid computing happens close to the end users.\par
3. Flexible operations- Hybrid computing gives you the flexibility to operate in the environment that\rquote s best for you. For example, by building with containers, you can create portable applications and easily move between public and private clouds.\par
On the other hand, there are some limitations of the hybrid cloud:-\par
1. Difficult to Implement- A hybrid cloud environment can be difficult to implement and maintain. Design and implementation often require the skills of an experienced cloud architect to ensure that the public cloud implementation being used is compatible with private infrastructure. \par
2. Visibility- The combination of disparate environments in the hybrid cloud model creates a need for full visibility across the entire environment. IT admin must be able to monitor systems, applications, and processes in all environments. This can be difficult if using multiple cloud providers with different proprietary management tools.\par
3. Compatibility and Data Integration- Applications and files used in a hybrid cloud environment must be compatible with all environments, whether on-prem or the private or public cloud. Incompatibilities can negate the benefit of being able to share resources and workloads between environments.\b\par
\b0\par
\par
\fs22\lang9\par
}
 